---
slug: /introduction
title: OpenMEV Documentation
description: Knowledgebase for OpenMEV
keywords:
  - mev
  - docs
---

# OpenMEV: Introduction

_Maximal_ (formerly _Miner_) _Extractable Value_ (MEVMEV) is the value

that can be extracted from a blockchain by any agent without special
permissions. Considering this permissionless nature, any agent with
transaction ordering rights will be in a privileged position to perform
the extraction. In Proof of Work blockchains, it is miners who determine
transaction ordering within a block, hence the former “_miner_”
term. In practice, bot operators seek to extract MEVMEV by either paying
high fees to increase the likelihood that their transactions are mined,
or by fine-tuning their gas price choices in order to “time” their
transactions right, as is the case when backrunning an oracle update to
perform a liquidation.

Despite much recent discussion about the topic and, in particular, its
associated risks for the Ethereum protocol, we still lack a cohesive
formal model for quantifying MEVMEV extraction. At
[Flashbots](https://hackmd.io/@flashbots/quantifying-REV), we have
released an [MEVMEV explorer](https://explore.flashbots.net/) where we
shed light on various aspects of this phenomenon. While we do elaborate
on our metrics in the site, they still lack a formal definition. Here,
we attempt to provide a unifying operational framework that consolidates
MEVMEV extraction metrics, focusing on the Ethereum
network[[1]](https://hackmd.io/@flashbots/quantifying-REV#fn1).

## General Considerations

The first important point to make is that MEVMEV is a theoretical
quantity that we can only approach asymptotically. Unforseen extraction
methods can and will be devised (every new DeFi hack is an MEVMEV
extraction event). Hence, we will here focus instead on the _Realized
Extractable Value_, notated REVREV, where REV≤MEVREV≤MEV. In other
words, REVREV is the _actual value_ extracted from the blockchain from
MEVMEV
opportunities[[2]](https://hackmd.io/@flashbots/quantifying-REV#fn2).

We note that there’s two classes of actors in the system, _searchers_
and _miners_. We use the generic label _miner_ for actors that bear the
privileged role of transaction inclusion and ordering. _Searchers_ are
any non-privileged actors aiming to profit from these opportunities.
Crucially, miners can also act as searchers.
